---
title: Bourges
author: John Zumsteg
date: Tue, 03 Sep 2013 15:28:41 +0000
category: [Rambles, Places]
math: true
mermaid: true
layout: post
---
Okay, phew! I finally got my pictures of Bourges ready for a post. Hard work, you know!

Bourges is a mid-sized city about two hours south of us. For tourists, its attractions are a beautiful, HUGE Gothic cathedral, and many medieval buildings that have been preserved, or restored to medieval condition, making it a great walking-around town. It also was the home-base of Jacques Coeur, who must be the most unknown powerful man ever. No one knows of him, but in the mid-1400s, he and his companies were essentially the French economy. Jacques Coeur had - and exercised - the power that the King of France could only wish he had.

Jacques Coeur built a beautiful Gothic house in Bourges. It remains the biggest and best example of Gothic architecture in a private residence. It's thought that he never actually lived here, though his long-suffering wife and kids did while he was off gallivanting around the world on his commercial and diplomatic missions.

[gallery size="medium" link="files" columns="2" ids="1600,1599,1598, 1615"]

The front of the house also has what are thought to be busts of Jacques Coeur and his wife. These are on either side of the front door of the house. Maybe they weren't getting along at the time...
[gallery size="medium" link="files" columns="2" ids="1611,1596"]

Because Jacques Coeur made much of his considerable fortune in shipping, his house pays honor to his ships in a number of places.
[gallery size="medium" link="files" columns="2" ids="1620,1621"]

<h3>Bourges Cathedral</h3>
[gallery size="medium" link="files" columns="2" ids="1609,1610,1604,1605"]

<h3>Some pictures from Bourges</h3>
[gallery size="medium" link="files" columns="2" ids="1603,1602,1606,1607,1601,1595"]

Bourges - another city we would return to visit in a minute. We're never going to see all France, because we keep finding these places to which we want to return, which means we don't have time for new places. Such a dilemma...
