---
title: Montigny-sur-Loing - our Home in France
author: John Zumsteg
date: Mon, 20 May 2013 11:36:48 +0000
category: France
math: true
mermaid: true
layout: post
---
We're here, and so far, everything's gone just fine!<br /><br />The flights over passed the test for successful travel these days: they were uneventful. I know that's a rather low bar to success, but given the quality of air travel these days, it works. Both flights were on time, all our bags arrived with us; that's success!<br /><br />We did have one little last minute glitch: at noon on the day we left, we decided that maybe we should weigh the four suitcases, since there is a 23kg limit (51 pounds) for each. Surprise: three of the four were overweight by about ten pounds. We did some rapid re-packing and adjusting, and left a few things behind, and re-weighed. Looked good, so off we went. Official weights at the airport: 22.6kg, 22.4, 22.4, 22.2. Phew - a total of about 4 pounds on the light side. On the other hand, I don't think the woman checking us in even glanced at the weights, so maybe we would have gotten away without the re-packing panic.<br /><br />We stayed with Mary &amp; Gilles the first night and came to Montigny (pronounced "Monteenyee") the next day. The house we rented here is fine, but clearly showed signs that it's occupied only a few weeks a year. So the first day was clean and dust and clean some more and get the cobwebs down. Now, after a couple days, it's really starting to feel like home. The boulangerie a hundred yards down the street is - as judged by our friends here - an excellent one, and I am not going to argue that. I went this morning for croissants and didn't make a fool of myself. We'll be known there in a few days, for sure.<br /><br />Yesterday we got a phone. Mary had just bought a new phone and we got the old one. It's a decidedly non-smart phone, but perfect for our needs. We signed up for a pre-paid plan - through the post office - and get 3 hours of in-France phone calls for about \\$40. We can receive international calls, but not make them, which is just fine with us. <br /><br />And we'll have Internet in the house next week (or maybe the week after; after all, this is France). It'll be about \\$33 per month including a bunch of television channels. Until then, we get 15 channels, all in French, which does us little good! When Internet arrives, it'll be a whole lot easier to post and use email. <br /><br />And tomorrow we pick up our car, a Renault Clio4. It's a sporty little car and should get over 40 mpg on diesel. Diesel is cheaper that gasoline here, but I think it's still about \\$7 per gallon.<br /><br />France has had the coolest Spring ever recorded (and I'm not talking about "coolest" in the 'hip' sense, but temperature sense) and that's the way it's been since we arrived: cloudy and cool. We've gotten out for a few walks already, and ventured into the Fountainebleau forest this morning. Montigny borders the Fountainbleau forest, which was a preserve of French kings since Louis XIV in the 16th century and has been kept as a government-owned park. It has over 650 miles of marked paths and many more miles of informal ones. We're not going far into there without a map of the forest and our GPS! Otherwise, I can guarantee we'd get lost and probably never be seen again.<br /><br />So that's it for now. I think it is really sinking in that we're going to be here almost five more months. Guess I'd better call that woman we know about French lessons...<br /><br />A tout a l'heure!<br /><br />John<br /><br /><p class='blogpress_location'>Location:<a href='http://maps.google.com/maps?q=Rue%20Georges%20Clemenceau,Chartrettes,France%4048.487054%2C2.702006&amp;z=10'>Rue Georges Clemenceau,Chartrettes,France</a></p>
